SQL

What are the various types of indexes?

b-tree index. The most common index type is the b-tree index. ...
function-based index. ...
reverse key indexes. ...
bitmap indexes. ...
bitmap join indexes. ...
compressed indexes. ...
descending. ...
partitioned indexes.

Is there any advantage of using views? On what kind of tables and columns, a view be created?

A view simplifies calls and provides a layer of indirection.

So, if you have a complex select with lots of joins, you can implement it in a view and simply call the view without need to consider all these joins. You can then reuse this view.

Besides the obvious benefits that Oded mentioned, you can sometimes drastically improve speed by using materialized views. From wikipedia:

In a database management system following the relational model, a view is a virtual table representing the result of a database query. Whenever an ordinary view's table is queried or updated, the DBMS converts these into queries or updates against the underlying base tables. A materialized view takes a different approach in which the query result is cached as a concrete table that may be updated from the original base tables from time to time.

Additionally, if you use a view instead of a table in this manner, in the future if you need to migrate a column, you can easily do that and only require changes to the view.

What are the various kinds of constraints which can be applied on a column?
What is the disadvantage of using indexes?

Index is a physical structure contains pointers to the data.
The users cannot see the indexes, they are just used to speed up queries. Effective indexes are one of the best ways to improve performance in a database application.
Two type of Index:

Clustered indexes define the physical sorting of a database table’s rows in the storage media. For this reason, each database table may have only one clustered index.
Non-clustered indexes are created outside of the database table and contain a sorted list of references to the table itself.
When to Create an Index:

The advantages of indexes are as follows:

Their use in queries usually results in much better performance.
They make it possible to quickly retrieve (fetch) data.
They can be used for sorting. A post-fetch-sort operation can be eliminated.
Unique indexes guarantee uniquely identifiable records in the database.
The disadvantages of indexes are as follows:

They decrease performance on inserts, updates, and deletes.
They take up space (this increases with the number of fields used and the length of the fields).
Some databases will monocase values in fields that are indexed.
You should only create indexes when they are actually needed.

Take care not to add an index on something that has already been indexed. If you need a more detailed index, you can add fields to an existing index as long as it is not a unique index.

What are the various techniques you have used for optimizing your tables? What about De-normalization?
What is the purpose of DUAL table?
DUAL table. The DUAL table is a special one-row, one-column table present by default in Oracle and other database installations. In Oracle, the table has a single VARCHAR2(1) column called DUMMY that has a value of 'X'. It is suitable for use in selecting a pseudo column such as SYSDATE or USER.

How will you convert a date to String in SQL?
How will you copy only the table structure from one table to another compatible table?
How will you copy the table structure and data from one table to another compatible table?
Which is the faster method of retrieving data using a SQL query? WHERE, ROWID, CURSOR
What is better to use? A subquery or a Join?
What is the purpose of NOCACHE and NOLOGGING keywords?
The benefits of the NOLOGGING option are:
Will save disk space when the archive option is enabled.
Will largely reduce I/O on the redologs.
Will reduce the time it takes to complete the operation.

What does DELETE CASCADE do in a constraint?
When should one use Auto Increment of a column than using a sequence?
How will you take the backup of the data present in your tables?
What is the difference between a Data Warehouse and Data Mining?
Data mining is a broad set of activities used to uncover patterns in, and give meaning to, data. The data warehouse, on the other hand, is a repository for information that may be used, among other things, to support data mining. ... Often this sort of analysis is referred to as data mining

What is the disadvantage of having constraints and integrity checks in triggers or procedures than to have them in the application using the database?
How will you delete duplicate rows from a table based on a particular column?
Can a view be created on another view?
Can a SQL query have an alias and be used as a column name for the enclosing parent SQL query? Give example?
PL/SQL

Is AVG a function or procedure?
What is the advantage of using packages for storing PL/SQL objects?
A package is a schema object that groups logically related PL/SQL types, items, and subprograms. Packages usually have two parts, a specification and a body, although sometimes the body is unnecessary. The specification (spec for short) is the interface to your applications; it declares the types, variables, constants, exceptions, cursors, and subprograms available for use. The body fully defines cursors and subprograms, and so implements the spec.

Advantages of PL/SQL Packages
Packages offer several advantages: modularity, easier application design, information hiding, added functionality, and better performance.

How will you raise an exception and an error in PL/SQL procedure?

EXCEPTION
  WHEN ex_name_1 THEN statements_1                 -- Exception handler
  WHEN ex_name_2 OR ex_name_3 THEN statements_2  -- Exception handler
  WHEN OTHERS THEN statements_3                      -- Exception handler
END;

How will you call a PL/SQL procedure from a SQL statement?
use a PL/SQL loop:

BEGIN
   FOR c IN (SELECT field1, field2 FROM mytable) LOOP
       my_proc(c.field1, c.field2);
   END LOOP;
END;

What is the default value being assigned to variables in a PL/SQL variables?
What is the difference between NVL and NVL2 functions?
The nvl function only has two parameters while the nvl parameter has three arguments.  The nvl2 like like combining an nvl with a decode because you can transform a value:

NVL ( expr1 , expr2 ): If expr1 is null, then NVL returns expr2. If expr1 is not null, then NVL returns expr1.

NVL2 ( expr1 , expr2 , expr3 ): If expr1 is null, then NVL2 returns expr3. If expr1 is not null, then NVL2 returns expr2

What is the difference between Count and Count(*)?
COUNT(*) will count the number of rows, while COUNT(expression) will count non-null values in expression and COUNT(column) will count all non-null values in column. Since both 0 and 1 are non-null values, COUNT(0)=COUNT(1) and they both will be equivalent to the number of rows COUNT(*)
What is the difference between Procedure and Function?
What is overloading of procedures?
What is a ROW and STATEMENT triggers?